PDF Solutions in SAP, connecting the shop floor to the top floor.
Every yield point, material choice, and cycle hour on the shop floor ultimately lands in finance.
The question is, can your business see and act on that linkage in time?
Semiconductor manufacturing spans thousands of tightly sequenced steps across hundreds of tools over many months, but ERP systems only capture a summarized view of that complexity.
In reality, data lives in many different places across equipment, MES, manufacturing data repositories, test systems, and the supply chain.
Because these signals are not connected, ERP receives only fragments, making it difficult to see and act on the true financial impact of shop-floor activity.
PDF Solutions and SAP partner to bring financial and operational data together.
This allows manufacturers to deploy proven use cases quickly and realize return on investment from day one.
At the center is Sapience Manufacturing Hub, a unified interface and centralized operational data layer that connects any MES, equipment source, or factory system with SAP S/4HANA.
By bringing this manufacturing data together, SMH creates a consistent, standardized operational foundation for SAP S/4HANA.
SMH is an enterprise integration platform that connects factory systems to SAP.
It standardizes events from MES and equipment, applies semantic rules, and registers the right milestones back into SAP S/4HANA in a finance-ready format.
ERP and MES operate at different levels of granularity, and manufacturing data often comes from multiple sources.
SMH reconciles these differences and aggregates events into a single, consistent source of truth that flows cleanly into SAP.
Semiconductor lots do not move in a straight line.
They often split, merge, or rework as they travel through the fab, and SMH keeps SAP production orders, batches, and confirmations consistent even when manufacturing paths diverge.
Here is how this works in practice. SAP S/4HANA generates a production order that is ready to be consumed on the shop floor.
SMH picks up that order, creates the corresponding manufacturing lot, and routes the right operational data to MES as production begins.
As production progresses, SMH captures key events from MES and aggregates thousands of detailed steps into clean milestone updates.
These routes are configured with reusable components, ensuring data flows into SAP in a consistent, finance-ready format.
Using Sapience Manufacturing Hub, manufacturers reduce interface build and maintenance costs, accelerate deployments, and achieve tighter traceability and throughput.
SMH provides a unified, standardized source of manufacturing data across factory systems, ensuring SAP has complete and consistent production data across every site and MES environment.
By bringing this manufacturing data together, SMH creates a consistent foundation for high-value solutions such as product costing, sustainability analytics, lot genealogy, and cost of yield.
Now let’s see how that foundation gets used.